AND THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE 



When a letter arrives for unhappy but 
ordinary Harry Potter, a decade-old secret 
is revealed to him. His parents were 
wizards, killed by a Dark Lord’s curse 
when Harry was just a baby, and which he 
somehow survived. Escaping from his 
unbearable Muggle guardians to Hogwarts, 
a wizarding school brimming with ghosts 
and enchantments, Harry stumbles into a 
sinister adventure when he finds a three¬ 
headed dog guarding a room on the third 
floor. Then he hears of a missing stone 
with astonishing powers which could be 
valuable, dangerous, or both. 

‘Funny, imaginative, magical... Rowling has 
woken up a whole generation to reading. In 
the 2020s, thirty-something book-lovers 
will know each other by smug references 
to Diagon Alley and Quidditch’ The Times 

‘This is a terrific book’ Sunday Telegraph 

‘Has all the makings of a classic ... Rowling 
uses classic narrative devices with flair and 
originality and delivers a complex and 
demanding plot in the form of a hugely 
entertaining thriller’ Scotsman 

‘And you thought wizardry was for 
children. Harry Potter will make you think 
again. He casts his spells on grown¬ 
ups too’ James Naughtie 

‘Full of surprises and jokes; comparisons 
with Dahl are, this time, justified’ 

Sunday Times 


£ 11.99 




Harry Potter and the 
Philosopher’s Stone 



Titles available in the Harry Potter series 
(in reading order): 

Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone 
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets 
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban 
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire 
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix 
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince 
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 

Titles available in the Harry Potter series 
(in Latin): 

Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone 
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets 
(in Welsh, Ancient Greek and Irish): 
Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone 



Harry Potter and the 
Philosopher’s Stone 


J. K. Rowling 


BLOOMS BURY 



All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced or 
transmitted by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying 
or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher 

First published in Great Britain in 1997 
Bloomsbury Publishing Pic, 36 Soho Square, London, W1D 3QY 

This edition first published in 2004 

Copyright © 1997 J. K. Rowling 

Harry Potter, names, characters and related indicia are 
copyright and trademark Warner Bros., 2000™ 

The moral right of the author has been asserted 
A CIP catalogue record of this book is available from the British Library 

ISBN 978 0 7475 7360 9 

The paper this book is printed on is certified by the © 1996 Forest Stewardship 
Council A.C. (FSC). It is ancient-forest friendly. The printer holds 
FSC chain of custody SGS-COC-2061. 

FSC 

Mixed Sources 

Product group from well-managed 
forests and other controlled sources 

Cert no. SGS-COC-2061 
©1996 Forest Stewardship Council 

Printed in Great Britain by Clays Ltd, St Ives pic 
Typeset by Dorchester Typesetting 

5 7 9 10 8 6 4 

www.bloomsbury.com/harrypotter 



for Jessica, who loves stories, 
for Anne, who loved them too, 
and for Di, who heard this one first. 




— CHAPTER ONE — 


The Boy Who Lived 


Mr and Mrs Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to 
say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They 
were the last people you’d expect to be involved in anything 
strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t hold with such 
nonsense. 

Mr Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which 
made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, 
although he did have a very large moustache. Mrs Dursley was 
thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, 
which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning 
over garden fences, spying on the neighbours. The Dursleys had a 
small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer 
boy anywhere. 

The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a 
secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover 
it. They didn’t think they could bear it if anyone found out about 
the Potters. Mrs Potter was Mrs Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t 
met for several years; in fact, Mrs Dursley pretended she didn’t 
have a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband 
were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. The Dursleys 
shuddered to think what the neighbours would say if the Potters 
arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a 
small son, too, but they had never even seen him. This boy was 
another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t 
want Dudley mixing with a child like that. 

When Mr and Mrs Dursley woke up on the dull, grey Tuesday 
our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to 
suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be hap¬ 
pening all over the country. Mr Dursley hummed as he picked out 
his most boring tie for work and Mrs Dursley gossiped away 



8 


Harry Potter 
